Adding onboarding docs and configuring live preview (#5333)
ROCm/rocm-libraries: projects/hipdnn/docs/conceptual/knobs.rst

.. meta::
  :description: hipDNN engine configuration knobs provide a flexible mechanism for controlling runtime behavior of hipDNN engines.
  :keywords: hipDNN, ROCm, API,

.. _knobs:

*********************************
hipDNN engine configuration knobs
*********************************

> Engine configuration knobs provide a flexible mechanism for controlling runtime behavior of hipDNN engines. They allow you to tune performance, configure algorithmic choices, and adjust memory usage without recompiling code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Engine configuration knobs provide a flexible mechanism for controlling the runtime behavior of hipDNN engines. They let you tune performance, configure algorithmic choices, and adjust memory usage without recompiling code.
```

> The knobs system is designed to be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This system is designed to be:
```

- **Flexible**: Support for multiple data types beyond ``int64_t``.
- **Namespace-safe**: Plugin-specific human-readable knob identifiers.
- **Extensible**: New knob types can be added without breaking existing code.

Knobs are runtime-configurable parameters that affect engine behavior. Each knob has a:

- **Unique identifier**: A string-based ID (for example, ``"global.benchmarking"``).
- **Type**: Integer (int64), Float (double), or String.
- **Default value**: The value used when not explicitly set.
- **Constraints**: Valid ranges or allowed values.
- **Description**: Human-readable explanation of purpose.

Knobs enable you to:

- Enable or disable features (for example, benchmarking mode).
- Tune performance parameters (for example, tile sizes and workspace limits).
- Select algorithmic variants (for example, solver selection).
- Control memory usage (for example, workspace size limits).

Knob types
==========

hipDNN supports two categories of knobs: global and custom knobs.

Global knobs
------------

Global knobs are standard knobs available across all or most engines. They're defined in the ``global.*`` namespace and provide common functionality.

> These knobs use the namespace prefix: ``global.*``. They have consistent behavior across engines, they're defined by the hipDNN specification, and can't be registered by custom plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These knobs use the namespace prefix ``global.*``. They have consistent behavior across engines, are defined by the hipDNN specification, and can't be registered by custom plugins.
```

**Examples**:

- ``global.benchmarking``: Enable/disable solver benchmarking.
- ``global.workspace_size_limit``: Set the maximum workspace memory.

Custom knobs
------------

Custom knobs are engine-specific or plugin-specific parameters. Plugin developers can register custom knobs to expose their own tuning parameters.

> These knobs use the namespace prefix: ``<plugin>.*`` or ``<plugin>.<operation>.*``. They configure engine-specific behavior, they're defined by plugin developers, and they extend hipDNN functionality for specific use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These knobs use the namespace prefix ``<plugin>.*`` or ``<plugin>.<operation>.*``. They configure engine-specific behavior, are defined by plugin developers, and extend hipDNN functionality for specific use cases.
```

**Examples**:

- ``miopen.conv.tile_size``: Set the convolution tile size for MIOpen.

> - ``rocblas.gemm.algo``: Select the GEMM algorithm for ROCm BLAS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``rocblas.gemm.algo``: Select the GEMM algorithm for ROCm BLAS operations.
```

Naming conventions
==================

Knobs follow a hierarchical naming scheme to avoid conflicts and improve organization: ``<namespace>.<category>.<knob_name>``.

Global namespace (reserved):

.. code::

  global.benchmarking
  global.workspace_size_limit
  global.deterministic

Plugin-specific namespace:

.. code::

  miopen.conv.tile_size
  rocblas.gemm.transpose_algorithm
  custom_plugin.matmul.block_size

.. important::

  The ``global.*`` namespace is reserved for standard knobs. Custom plugins can't register knobs in this namespace.

Standard global knobs
=====================

These are the global knobs available in hipDNN:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 3 3 3 5
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Knob
     - Type
     - Default
     - Description
   * - ``global.benchmarking``
     - Integer (int64)
     - 0 (disabled)

>      - Enable benchmarking mode for kernel selection. When enabled, engines may run multiple kernel variants and select the fastest. First run may be slower due to benchmarking overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Enable benchmarking mode for kernel selection. When enabled, engines can run multiple kernel variants and select the fastest. The first run might be slower due to benchmarking overhead.
```

   * - ``global.workspace_size_limit``
     - Integer (int64)
     - The maximum size needed for optimal performance.
     - Limits the maximum workspace memory that solvers can use for convolution operations (Forward, Backward Data, Backward Weights). Refer to :ref:`plugin-support` for specific details.

.. note::

  Additional global knobs may be available depending on the engine. Use ``get_knobs_for_engine()`` to discover all available knobs for a specific engine.

Provider-specific knobs
=======================

> Different engine providers may expose their own custom knobs. Refer to :ref:`plugin-support` for specific details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different engine providers might expose their own custom knobs. See :ref:`plugin-support` for specific details.
```

.. tip::

>   When developing with multiple providers, use ``get_knobs_for_engine()`` to programmatically discover available knobs rather than hard-coding knob names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When developing with multiple providers, use ``get_knobs_for_engine()`` to programmatically discover the available knobs rather than hard-coding knob names.
```

Validation
==========

The backend:

- Deserializes the knob settings from the ``EngineConfig``.
- Queries the engine for its supported knobs.
- Validates each setting against the knob's constraints.

> - Use the default values for any unspecified knob settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Uses the default values for any unspecified knob settings.
```

If the validation fails, hipDNN returns ``HIPDNN_STATUS_BAD_PARAM``.

API reference
=============

See :ref:`knob-api` for the API reference information.

Best practices
==============

For users
---------

> - **Query before setting**: Always call ``get_knobs_for_engine()`` to understand available knobs and their constraints before setting values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Query before setting**: Always call ``get_knobs_for_engine()`` to understand the available knobs and their constraints before setting values.
```
